All right. Now let's check out the solution for doing Euclidean clustering.
So, in my code,
back in cluster.cpp, I'm going to scroll up here,
and this is what I'm going to do.
So, I have my vector or vector ints, that's my clusters,
and the key here is to really keep track of which points have been processed or not.
So the way I'm going to do this is I'm going to create a vector of
booleans and it's going to be exactly the same size as my point size.
So my points is all the data I have for my 2D set.
So there's 11 points in total,
and so it's going to be 11 booleans that are all going to start as false.
None of the points have been looked at yet.
Now, I'm going to iterate through those points, those 11 points,
and I'm just doing that here with this while loop, the points.size,
and then if that point has been processed already basically,
I'm just going to go ahead and increment,
move on to the next point and continue.
If not, if that point hasn't been processed,
well that pseudocode was telling me I should create
a brand new cluster and that cluster is represented by this vector of ints.
Then, I'm going to use this cluster helper.
So we're in that pseudocode,
we're just calling this function proximity,
here I'm calling it cluster helper.
What I'm going to give it is,
I have that point id.
It needs to know about the points,
it has this cluster that's being passed in as reference.
So, in that pseudocode we had this eye this cluster.
Also needs to know about which points have been processed or not.
It needs to know about our k-d tree that we're passing into
Euclidean clustering because that's what's doing the nearby neighbor search.
It's calling that search function.
We need to know about the distance tolerance to accept.
So this is going to run,
and then when it gets exhausted,
it's going to leave us with this cluster,
this belt cluster that we can just push back into clusters.
We move onto the next point,
and then when we're done iterating through all the points,
we just return clusters.
So, let's see how that cluster helper works now.
So that's going to be running recursively, it's calling itself,
and first thing that we do is we go ahead and we mark that point as being processed.
So we grab that indice and we say,
"Hey that indice in processed is now been processed,
it's true", and we go ahead and we push that point back into clusters.
So, we're solely building upper cluster here.
Now, we're going to see which points are near by to this indice.
So, our tree's going to help us out with this,
we call tree search and we do it for points indice,
and we're doing this with that distance tolerance.
So here, with that indice,
we are just referencing it from our dataset of 11 points.
We grab that point and just say, "Hey,
what's nearby within this distance tolerance," and that's going to
give us a list of indices that are nearby,
and then we iterate through those nearby indices,
so we grab those int ID's.
If that point, that id hasn't been processed yet,
then we just include it into cluster helper.
So we pass in that ID and
then all the information that it needs to go forward along with that cluster,
and what that's going to do is slowly climb around and build out our cluster.
So like spiderweb around,
and take all these points,
and then build it into this cluster,
and then we're going to have this list of
clusters after we're done with Euclidean cluster.
So let's go ahead and see what that looks like.
We can go ahead and compile,
we're calling that Euclidean cluster function now,
and if we come over here and we run make,
I think there might actually be one last thing to do down here.
Let's go ahead and just check it.
Euclidean clusters is being called and is doing points tree 3.0, okay.
Nice. So, this should be everything that we need to get our cluster groups.
So here it found one cluster here.
So yeah, clustering found three and took zero milliseconds,
so is very fast.
Try to stress it out more,
throw a million points into this k-d tree,
make it find clusters.
Yeah. This'll be great when we're working with the real point cloud data,
it will come in handy.
So here we have our red cluster,
we have our green cluster,
and we have our blue cluster,
and all these points are within a distance of 3.0,
so they are associated to each other.
Awesome. So we just finished implementing
the Euclidean cluster algorithm from scratch that PCL was using earlier.
Now, you have everything you need in order to build
this Euclidean cluster function and replace the PCL one.
We've been working with 2D data,
but it's not too far of a stretch to go from 2D to 3D.
All you have to do is include that extra dimension and some slight changes to the code,
and then you can have a 3D k-d tree, a 3D tree.